room temperature studies have shown that
women on average
prefer higher temperatures world's
warmest country
yearly average it's burkina faso a
colorado-sized african country near the
sahara desert
its name means land of honest people
tropical rain rainforests cover less
than three percent of the earth's
surface
but house more than half the planet's
land species
chocolate melting yum the ancient aztecs
loved chocolate so much
its beans were a valuable currency in
their civilization
butter melting the color depends on a
cow's diet
the more greens it eats the yellower the
butter
maximum temperature recorded on mars
mars is home to the tallest mountain in
the solar system
olympus mods it's more than twice the
height of everest
the hottest inhabited place the record
is held by dallo
ethiopia a cauldron of burning salt
volcanic rock and sulfuric acid
how inviting human body temperature
goosebumps evolve to stand body hair up
on
end and make our prehistoric ancestors
looked more intimidating
are you intimidated now oh well
sand desert during the day only 20
percent of deserts on earth are covered
in sand
the rest are snowy and icy antarctica is
the planet's largest
chicken's body turns out chickens can
distinguish between more than 100 faces
of different species
they dream and have full color vision
just like us
and they're delicious cell phone
the average cell phone holds more
bacteria than a toilet handle
critical maximum for human body at this
point it's
too high to sustain life
hot bath you burn as many calories
taking a hot bath
as you would doing 40 sit-ups or walking
for 30 minutes
hottest body temperature the temperature
was recorded in 1980
a 52 year old man spent 24 days in the
hospital
and survived a car left in the sun
and that's just after one hour on a mild
summer day
hair dryer the first hair dryer invented
wasn't handheld
it was used in salons it produced heat
but no
air clothes dryer
astronauts on the international space
station can't do laundry
when their clothes get too dirty they
throw them in the trash
mozzarella cheese melting is the most
popular type of cheese
followed by parmesan and cheddar
the highest temperature recorded on
earth it happened on july 10
1913 in furnace creek california
good name hot spring
new zealand's aptly dub frying pan lake
is the largest hot spring in the world
egg frying temperature asphalt reaches
slightly higher temperatures in summer
meaning you could fry an egg in a
parking lot
the hottest place on earth sand dunes in
iran's loot desert
can be over 1500 feet in height taller
than the empire state building
dishwasher on average a dishwasher uses
10 times less water than doing your
dishes by hand
hot tea green and black tea are made
from the same plant
the difference is that black leaves are
fermented longer
hottest river peru's cheney tempishka
is known as the only boiling river in
the world the name means
boiled by the sun but the source of the
heat is actually geothermal from within
the earth itself
boiling point of water it's the only
substance on earth that exists
naturally in all physical states liquid
solid and gas
finnish sauna in finland there's a sauna
in
nearly every household for them a home
isn't a home without one
i thought finnish sauna meant time to
get out of the sauna
moon during the day our little satellite
appeared from a rock smashing into earth
when the solar system was just forming
plastic melting it takes 50 to 80 years
for a plastic cup to decompose
more than 20 billion end up in landfills
each year
oven surveys show only 10 percent of
americans love cooking
among the others half is lukewarm and
the other half can't stand it
i guess they're cold about cooking
flat iron hot tools break down hydrogen
bonds in your hair and rearrange them in
a fixed position
straight or curly sugar melting
sugar helps wounds heal by soaking up
moisture that bacteria love
iron people have been ironing forever it
goes back to ancient china over 2
000 years ago car engine
driving 60 miles per hour it would take
you one hour to get to space
but six months to get to the moon
sr 71 blackbird service that's the
average all over
it's a lot hotter up in the front about
950 degrees
there's more friction from cutting
through air molecules
mercury surface during the day even on a
scorching planet
scientists think there's ice inside
mercury's craters
the surface of venus despite being
further away from the sun
venus is a bit steamier than mercury
it's the hottest in the solar system
draper point any higher than this and
most solid material
start glowing fireplace
the tallest chimney in the world is in
kazakhstan it's over 1300 feet tall
half the height of the burj khalifa
silver melting in ancient egypt silver
was more valuable than gold
average fire earth is the only known
planet where fire occurs
thanks to oxygen oxygen replies you're
welcome fire
gold melting gold appeared on earth from
meteorites bombarding the planet when it
was first forming
fireworks they appeared in china 2 000
years ago
the country now produces 90 percent of
the world's supply
the biggest fireworks consumer is disney
volcanic eruption when lava is
completely cooled down
it becomes silvery and creates the
landscape around a volcano
mars is core pieces of the red planet
have made it to earth after asteroid
collisions
the hottest part of a candle flame
ancient greeks put candles on cakes
their tradition of doing it on birthdays
started in 15th century germany
iron melting you have enough iron in
your body to make a three inch nail
not enough to be magnetic but you can
still be magnanimous
meteorite falling earth gets about 500
meteorites a year
less than 10 percent of those are found
steven spielberg collects them
silver boiling silver was one of the
first five elements discovered
argentina means silvery in spanish
gold boiling pure gold is so soft
you can mold it with your bare hands
earth when it formed it happened four
and a half billion years ago i wasn't
around that
life didn't appear until a billion years
later
diamond melting scientists discovered a
white dwarf star made entirely of
diamond
it's the size of earth and worth 10
billion trillion trillion
carrots kelt 9b
it's an exoplanet and the hottest one
found so far
molecules in the planet's atmosphere can
even stay together because of the heat
uranus is core the closest humanity ever
came to uranus
was 50 000 miles from it and that was
nasa's voyager 2
in 1986. earth's outer core
nobody knows who named earth it came
from english and german words meaning
ground
it's the only planet not named after
greek or roman deities
sun's surface though our star doesn't
have a solid surface
the part we see called the photosphere
is always moving
alpha centauri a it's the closest star
system to earth
scientists discovered an earth-sized
planet orbiting alpha centauri b
that can possibly have water well we'll
just have to
see polaris since the earth wobbles like
a spinning top
polaris wasn't and won't always be our
pole star
for the ancient egyptians their north
star was thuben
earth's core it's not as far away as you
think
route 66 is a longer distance
neptune's core neptune has the wildest
hurricanes
wind speeds reach over 1300 miles per
hour
faster than the speed of sound saturn's
core
the planet hasn't always had rings it
got them less than 100 million years ago
and will lose them in 300 million years
sirius a also known as the dog star
it's the brightest in the night sky its
companion in the binary system
sirius b is called the pub
jupiter's core the fastest spinning
planet its day is only 10 earth hours
long
serious b the force of gravity on the
pump
is 350 000 times stronger than that on
earth
a pencil would weigh 11 tons
lightning it's five times hotter than
the surface of the sun
the empire state building is struck by
lightning about 24 times a year
once it was hit eight times in less than
half an hour
shocking wr 102
it's the hottest star we know of today
it's in the sagittarius constellation
and close to exploding into a supernova
the red spider nebula the white dwarf
star in its center is one of the hottest
known
stellar winds there create waves 60
billion miles high
the sun's corona it's the outermost
crown-like layer of the sun's atmosphere
it's almost 100 times hotter than its
surface
the sun's core it takes eight minutes
for light from the sun to reach the
earth
if it went out we wouldn't know it for
that long
and then lights out supernova explosion
these massive stars exploding in on
their own gravity can be so bright
they outshine their entire galaxies for
months
one second after the big bang within a
fraction of a fraction of a second
the universe doubled its size almost 100
times
it's been expanding ever since kinda
like me
the hottest temperature achieved in a
lab it was reached in 2012 in the large
hadron collider at cern
doubling the previous record absolute
hot
it's the theoretical hottest
temperatures can get opposite of
absolute zero
believed to be the temperature of the
big bang explosion
and that's hot hot hot